India, the largest democracy in the world, has to organize the general elections once every five years. About 900 million registered voters, 1 million polling stations, 3.6 million Electronic Voting Machines required, 11 million government employees employed for the elections, and about 4000 counting stations across the nation. These numbers are clearly massive.
   The biggest challenge which every election will face is the safety, security, reliability, and maintenance of transparency in the process. It is a tough challenge. especially in India.
   I think security of polling booths and counting centers is a major challenge. We can prepare a 'Vulnerability Map’ of the city or town and flag the suspicious areas where election malpractices had been followed or are being followed. This will help us in understanding the metrics of suspiciousness and using Machine Learning algorithms we can predict other suspicious areas across the state or territory. This will help us to fight bribing, tribal attack, booth capturing, fraudulent candidates and misuse of official machinery. 
    Using Blockchain technology, we can provide the feature of online voting to the voters who are living away from their constituency and for some reason(s) they cannot come for voting. Blockchain is very much safe because the network is secured by several computers called nodes and each node is required to confirm the process. Several nodes will be set up in various strategic locations in the territory.
    The Universal Adult Franchise provision of the Indian Constitution must be implemented in such a way that no eligible voter is left out. We can make a software which will accept the data from the government’s publicly available datasets and filter out the citizens who are approaching 18 yeas of age. We can then issue an e-Voter ID to the concerned citizens under the existing laws in the Constitution of India.
     An application will be created which will be freely available for the public to download, which will contain a lot of information such as the number of candidates in the constituency, information on his/her’s previously available candidature, the fund utilization efficiency, number and status of criminal records against him/her, the agenda which is laid down and important highlights of it, etc. Several bar graphs and charts will be shown and also comparison between the available candidates could be made. It would be better to create the app on a regional level because we could integrate the regional information later if required.
     In the Blockchain, every node is a computer and it is competent to perform calculations. We can transfer the data from the EVM to the node, securely using Blockchain. The nodes will have software to count the number of votes for the candidate and will display the results immediately. No single person can infringe with the data without the permission from other nodes connected in the Blockchain, within the territory. 
 Thus, we can use Blockchain technology which has greater computing power, and encourages decentralized processes. It is really a future technology.

